# What is a WA dashboard?
The water accounting dashboard provides detailed multi-year water accounts of a basin’s water 
resources including inflows, outflows, water use patterns and availability, to establish baseline 
conditions. It can also compare baseline and future water accounts (where available), to provide 
stakeholders with an understanding of the current and potential future water resources status. 
The platform leverages advanced data visualization tools to offer user-friendly access to complex 
information, empowering stakeholders to understand the dynamics between various water-balance 
parameters. In addition, the dashboard was designed to ensure that it caters to stakeholders of 
diverse backgrounds and expertise, from policymakers to scientists. Stakeholder feedback was 
incorporated to enrich the platform's accessibility and user experience to enable active participation 
and engagement.
This web-based dashboard represents one of the tools that could be used in promoting effective 
stakeholder deliberation of water balance information for sustainable water resource management.

# Why do we need a WA dashboard?
Water resource management is an essential global challenge, necessitating a comprehensive and 
inclusive approach to address the diverse needs of the stakeholders involved. Stakeholder 
deliberation is crucial in fostering cooperation and informed decision-making for sustainable water 
management. However, lack of hydrometeorological observations often limits our understanding on 
the complex interlinkages between competing demands for water in the basin or a country. To 
overcome the challenges of water data scarcity in managing water resources, the International Water 
Management Institute is generating reliable and systematic analysis ready water data products on 
water use, demand, water availability and scarcity using water accounting plus (WA+) framework. The 
water accounting plus (WA+) approach (Karimi et al., 2013) derives basin scale water availability and 
scarcity indicators using earth observation data products and limited in situ observations. The WA+ 
framework is an open source python programming based model that uses a collection of remote 
sensing data products and in situ data to quantify water accounting indicators such as a) water yield, 
b) irrigation/rainfed water use, c) productive/unproductive water use, and other water availability 
indicators at river basin scale. Continental water accounting plus (CWA+) is a modified version of WA+ 
where the water accounting indicators can be generated for any given boundary (catchment, or a 
country or a county). 
The suite of water data generated by water accounting studies provide several new insights into water 
availability and scarcity indicators at continental scale. The availability of open source codes enables 
repeatable and rapid water accounting assessments without much effort. IWMI’s WA dashboard is a
web-based dashboard built using Tableau technology to enhance stakeholder engagement and 
facilitate effective deliberation by summarizing and communicating the key water accounts basin.
